# IDP-IOT-PARKING-MANAGEMENT-SYSTEM-WITH-LICENSE-PLATE-RECOGNITION

Abstract:

Nowadays, as the rapid increase of car on road, parking management become a vital factor in cities development. At the same time, UPM as an academic area with high private vehicle traffic needs an effective parking management system. Currently, parking management system with parking barrier and access card is widely applied in UPM due to system stability or as a package of integration with building from decade ago. After analysis from interview session with our targeted clients which are First City Parking Sdn. Bhd. (a parking operator) and kiplePark by Kiplepay Sdn. Bhd. (a mobile payment provider), both of our clients state that License Plate Recognition (LPR) is current market trends and highly potential to be applied as future solution in parking management technology. Thus, continuous from our design in Smart Parking Payment System with E-Wallet (SMAPPS), we proposed new project title called IoT Parking Management System with LPR by implementation of cloud computing with Google Cloud Vision API. Through input of images and Raspberry Pi as controller, the images are sending to the cloud and compute by cloud API to detect car plate and plate number. Then, by comparing detected car plate number with our database, the outcome is either approval to pass or not. The whole process only taking time around 5-10 seconds with cloud detection confidence level of 80%.  On the user side, an app developed to check and pay for the entry. Overall, this system shows capability and stability of LPR implementation in parking management system.

 _Keyword: IoT, Parking Management System, License Plate Recognition (LPR), Google Cloud Vision API, OpenCV, Python-tesseract.
